It is a great joy to me to accept this award on behalf of one of the finest and one of the most loved actors in my country. There is something very special in being recognized in a country other than one's own and I know that Paul Scofield would want me to say with great warmth and great humility, thank you.

Thank you. The other day, as I was falling off my bicycle, I had the following thoughts:  I was given a very juicy part; I was allowed to work with talented, exhilarating and beautiful people; I was given a good deal of money and a great deal of joy.  And now, really, don't you think this is going a little too far?  [Laughs.] Thank you, anyway.

Miss Taylor regrets very much that she can't be here tonight. I'm sure she must be very, very proud; not half as nervous as me, I'm sure. But she thanks you very, very much. Thank you.

Sandy thanks you very much. I thank Sandy. It was nice to be up here.

Thank you very much. There are always a great many people to thank in the making of a film and I do thank them all. I'd like to thank a young director whose first picture it was my good fortune to work with him on, and that's Mike Nichols. Thank you.GEORGE JAMES HOPKINS:I also have to thank Ernest Lehman for his many kindnesses.

I have an idea the four of us look more like a polo team cause there's just four. Believe me, we -- all four of us -- have a lot to thank tomorrow when we go back to the studio, a whole lot full of people who helped make this picture possible. Thank you so much.DALE HENNESY:A very special thanks to Frank Armitage, Tom Greaves*, Art Cruickshank and Ernie Laszlo. Thank you very much.

I hope we can use our art for peace and for love. Thanks.

I'm terribly sorry that I'm the wrong Moore; I spell my name differently than Ted. But I'd just like to say for him as I know he would like to say, that thank you for this terrific honor that you have bestowed upon him. I only wish that I could share it with him directly.

It is with great pride and great honor that I accept on behalf of Miss Irene Sharaff this marvelous award. I hope that I have attempted to say what I know that she would have said under the circumstances. Thank you.

On behalf of my two very talented colleagues from Britain, Elizabeth Haffenden and Joan Bridge, I'm very proud and privileged to accept this award for them. Thank you very much, members of the Academy.

Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of all the people who worked on Man for All Seasons, especially Robert Bolt, John Box and Bill Graf, I would like to thank you for this great honor. I must also thank the Columbia executives, and especially Mike Frankovich, for the courage, enthusiasm and faith they had in this project. Thank you.

For Peter Watkins, I would like to express his thanks to the Academy and its members for their appreciation of his efforts. Thank you.

A Year toward Tomorrow was made for VISTA, which many people know as the domestic Peace Corps. And I'd like to thank those VISTAs whose achievements in working with the poor were the basis for the film and the basis for this honor. Thank you.

We would like to thank you, the members of the Academy, the very talented technical people at MGM, and the greatest film editing staff ever assembled. Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I don't speak English. But Un homme et une femme est un film d'amour; il a eu beaucoup de succès dans votre pays. Je voudrais maintenant qu'il y a pleine de metteurs-en-scène qui fassent des films pour que s'écoute les guerres du monde. Merci. Thank you very much.

The producers of Born Free join you of the Academy in paying honor to John Barry, a fine composer. And he in turn has asked me to say thank you.

On behalf of Ken Thorne I'd like to say thank you very much to all the members of the Academy. Thank you.

On behalf of John Barry I'd just like to thank Mr. Carl Foreman and Donnie Kirshner and all the members of the Academy. Thank you very much.

Thank you very much.

Thank you all very much. And we'd like to thank Herb Alpert, Jerry Moss, Gil Friesen, all the great artists who worked on the film, and all the members of the Academy. I thank you.

On behalf of Edgar Anstey, thank you.

I wish to thank the Academy on behalf of many people of our sound department whose technical talents and creative ability have made this possible. Thank you very much.

Oh, it's just too much. Well, thank you very much to the Academy and the marvelous people I work with.

My thanks to the many talented technicians whose combined efforts made this picture possible. And I also want thank the man who should be here beside me, Mr. L. B. Abbott. Thank you, Academy.

Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. You really are incredibly generous to aliens. You've been so generous to me that I think the time has come for me to reveal the secret of my success in this field. And my advice to any aspiring young writer for the film medium is very simple: Just make sure that you write for either David Lean or Freddy Zinnemann.I've also got a couple of metaphorical Oscars of my own which I want to bestow. One to Bill Graf, our executive producer, who brought Freddy and myself together and suggested that we have a go at  it. And the other one to Johnny Box, who on a pretty small budget created the mock-ups of various palaces and castles, inside and out, which were so good that I, I think in common with a lot of other people, when I first saw them on the rushes, thought they were the real thing. Thank you very much. I'm very proud to have this.

Thank you very much. Je voudrais avoir une pensée pour mon co-scènariste, Pierre Uytterhoeven, que mérite le prix autant que moi ce soir. Merci.

Well, Jean Hersholt was a friend of mine, and he's a friend of all mankind. As the former president of the Motion Picture Relief Fund he left footprints that were deep enough to withstand the erosions of time and winds. I am gratified you think I've been able to follow him and I thank you sincerely for this treasured honor. But thank you even more for your continued support of our industry-sponsored welfare agencies. I have to add that I again thank the Academy and the industry with which I have been identified. Thank you very much.

Thank you. I want to thank the Academy, not so much, not so much for what I have enjoyed doing all these years myself and hope to continue doing, but in the name of the all those stuntmen and women who kept defying busted bones, bashed-in heads to make pictures more real and reality more picturesque. They're a great gang and I am honored you chose me to honor them.[To Charlton Heston:] Now, what do you say we saddle up and get some action going.

Thank you, Jack. It has been a great privilege, which I've enjoyed, to be a member of the motion picture industry. It has also been a great privilege to have served for many years on the board of the Academy and to have been associated with a group of men dedicated to the betterment and the advancement of this industry. There was never anything selfish in their motives. I want to express to them my heartfelt appreciation for this award.And to you, Jack, I want to say that we are fortunate that you've joined us as president of the Motion Picture Producers Association and I feel highly honored that you were the one selected to give me this award. Thank you.

To those writers, actors, cameramen, editors, craftsmen on the stages and the back lots and distant location sites. To the executives and all who make pictures possible and to the audiences who respond. Let me respond with a sincere and most grateful thank you.

Thank you. Thank you very much. For maharishi's sake. Thank you, thank you, thank you.Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you. I find it unbelievable, I find it overwhelming and I wish to thank the members of the Academy for such an experience. Secondly, if I may indulge myself, I would like to thank the people in the public who've been so kind to me. Thirdly, I'd like to thank Norman Jewison for his giving an actor freedom to make a mistake. Fourthly, and most importantly, I'd like to thank Mr. Sidney Poitier for the pleasure of his friendship which gave me the knowledge and understanding of prejudice in order to enhance my performance. Thank you, and we shall overcome.

Oh, I could bust. I have to thank Stuart Rosenberg for giving me the opportunity to even be here. And I must simply thank the Academy for the greatest moment of my life. Thank you.

I know that I as her friend have a great, great thrill and I'm sure Katharine thanks you very much. And I think it's a very, very hard choice you had to make. Anyway, I'm sure she'll be very happy. Thank you very much.

Boy, it's heavy! I have to thank David Merrick who let me out of my Broadway play The Seven Descents of Myrtle so I could be here this evening, and little did he know what it would really mean to me. I also first want to express my great gratitude to Arthur Penn, my own particular genius, for really showing me acting was something very special. And, of course, to Warren Beatty. And thank you all. This is a great moment.

Unfortunately, Mr. Carrere isn't here tonight. He's making a picture in Mexico. So on his behalf I would like to say thank you. And for myself, thank you again.JOHN W. BROWN:Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Academy, for honoring me with this award. And I would also like to thank the technicians and craftsmen at Warner Bros.-Seven Arts Studios whose artistic achievements and excellent workmanship enabled me to get this honor. Thank you.

Thanks everybody that helped me do it. That's all I can say.

I really didn't expect this at all so I don't quite know what to say. So might I just say a simple thank you.

Until this moment my greatest pleasure in The Graduate was making it, because it's a picture made by a group. And we cared for each other and we cared for what we were doing. So this award quite literally belongs to them at least as much as it does to me. I'm grateful to them and to the Academy and to the movies themselves. And I'd also like to wish my mother a happy birthday. Thank you.

I will thank you very much, the Academy. And I think that if my picture have any qualities, it's mostly due to the human quality of the thirty-three men of the platoon. And above all, because of the human quality of its leader, the Lieutenant Joe B. Anderson. So I'm very proud to share this honor with them.

On behalf of King Screen Productions, Mark Harris the co-producer, and Dick Chew the photographer, we would like to extend our very sincere thanks to the Academy for this honor. Thank you very much.

To repeat the words of a very dear friend of mine last year when he picked up his Oscar:  I only hope that we can use all of our talents and creativity towards peace and love.  Thank you.

I am very happy that Americans like Czech film. Thank you.

My dear friend Bobby Helfer just conducted the orchestra to play me on, and if he hadn't encouraged me in 1954 when he was my agent, I wouldn't be here tonight.  Thank you.

I can't say very much, but we're highly honored and very grateful indeed. Thank you.KEN DARBY:The honor of winning this award can only be exceeded by the honor of working with Alfred Newman. Thank you all.

Leslie and Evie and the littlest Bricusses of all, they're busy working now. But I know that Leslie would want me to thank the members of the Academy for the honor. And, if I may, to say Leslie would probably say: [in a British accent] It's absolutely marvelous. It's super. Thank you. God bless.

Thank you, and thank you, members of the Academy. From its very inception In the Heat of the Night has been a labor of love for all those of us who've been part of it. And I want to express my deep gratitude to all of the talented artists who contributed to it, but most particularly to my friend and partner Norman Jewison, whose brilliant direction brought it so vividly to life. We are all very grateful for your recognition of our efforts and for your recognition of the lesson of In the Heat of the Night. Thank you.

Thank you, Shelly. Shelly Manne, musician who did this. Rich Harrison. My son Billy Wolf. My partner and I are very happy. Academy, thank you. Thank you very much.

Wow. Well, on behalf of the Ontario government, and David Mackay of T.D.F., and Barry Gordon, and the very many people who have made this film so successful, I thank you very, very, very much indeed.

I wish to thank the Academy members on behalf of the Samuel Goldwyn Sound Department. And I particularly would like to thank the boys that worked on this thing, especially Walter Goss, the production mixer, and Clem Portman, our re-recording mixer. Thank you very much.

John is very sorry that he was not able to be here tonight but he asked me to thank all the members of the Academy for this wonderful Oscar. And a special thanks to Mr. Robert Aldrich and everybody at MGM for all the help. Thank you.

I want to most sincerely thank all the wonderful people that made this possible.

I really have no speech; the Writers Guild doesn't permit us to do any speculative writing. I'm deeply grateful and very touched. Thank you, Rod, Norman, Walter, Sidney, everyone. Thank you.

Mr. Rose has been many times honored. I think if he were able to be here tonight he would say this is most certainly his greatest. Thank you.

Thank you, Roz, and Governors of the Academy. It's a humbling experience to hear oneself described as a humanitarian at any time, but especially this week. I'll try to be deserving and, if I may, I would suggest that those of us who would like to help the humanitarian efforts of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference with its non-violent approach to our most pressing problems may do so by sending contributions – large or small – to the Martin Luther King, Jr. fund, Atlanta, Georgia. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Bob. I could never write a lyric that would properly express my gratitude. But reverting back to my job, keep the show moving, will you?

Thank you.

Ladies and gentleman, Mr. Robertson is filming in the Philippines and unfortunately he is steeped in it, couldn't get away in time. But on his behalf, he thanks the Academy, and I wish him the joyous moment of his life right now. Thank you.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Academy. I didn't think I was gonna be this moved. I must say I'm glad I'm off the hook; it's the first one. And it's not the first time I've been an opening act.There are so many people to thank I really don't know where to begin. I'd like to thank Edgar Lansbury, Ulu Grosbard, Martin Sheen. Of course that wonderful, wonderful actress and great woman, Patricia Neal. And throughout the years I've had the help and encouragement of many people and to them I'm extremely grateful, but I must say that my eternal gratitude will always be reserved for the man who made this moment possible: Frank Gilroy, the author of The Subject Was Roses. Thank you very much.

When I asked Miss Hepburn what she thought when she had broken the records for winning the, breaking the records for nominations, she said, I suppose if I have lived as long as I have, anything can happen. And I'm absolutely thrilled that it has happened. Thank you very much.

[To the Oscar:]  Hello, gorgeous.And I'm very honored to be in such magnificent company as Katharine Hepburn. And gee whiz, it's kind of a wild feeling. Sitting there tonight I was thinking that the first script of Funny Girl was written when I was only eleven years old, and thank God it took so long to get it right, you know. So I would like to thank my co-producer Ray Stark for waiting till I grew up. And Jule Styne and Bob Merrill, for giving me such a great score to sing. And Isobel Lennart, for writing such a terrific character. And all the Hollywood people who made our show into a movie: Herb Ross, and my dear Harry Stradling who I haven't let go since, and my dear friend and director, William Wyler. Wow. It's like, somebody once said to me, asked me, if I was happy. And I said, Are you kidding? I'd be miserable if I was happy. And I'd like to thank all the members of the Academy for making me really miserable. Thank you.

I can't tell you how encouragin' a thing like this is. The first film that I was ever in was in 1915 and here we are and it's 1969. Actually, I don't know why it took me so long; though I don't think, you know, that I'm backward. Anyway. Thank you, Bill. Thank you, Bob. Thank you, Roman. And thank you, Mia. And thank all of you who voted for me. And all of you who didn't, please excuse me.

Thank you very, very much. It's a great, great honor. Thank you.

Grazie. Grazie a tutti.

#VALUE!

Not having made a musical before you can imagine what I owe to other people. There's Onna White and of course Lionel Bart and Johnny Green, but so many others that have helped me throughout it. But I would like to just make a special mention for our producer, John Woolf. And on behalf of all of them, I would just like to say how very proud and honored I am that you've given me your Oscar tonight. Thank you.

#VALUE!

Thank you.  Thank you very much.

Thank you all very much. And my special thanks to our director Peter Yates and all the other talented people that made Bullitt.

[Makes a statement in Russian.] Thank you very much. I love you.

#VALUE!

Thank you, ladies and gentleman. Gosh, to get one of these from Mancini; what an honor. I must express my thanks, ladies and gentleman, first of all, first of all to Lionel Bart for those wonderful songs. To John Woolf, Carol Reed, Onna White and John Box. To my associate Eric Rogers and all those fabulous British colleagues. To my American music editor Ken Runyon and his British associate Bob Hathaway. And before I leave this stage I must say, express my great gratitude to two executives of Columbia Pictures but for whom I wouldn't have been there in the first place: Mike Frankovich and Jonie Taps. God bless you. Thank you.

Oh, it's heavy. Well, we've got them in stereo. Thank you.ALAN BERGMAN:Thank you. We'd like to thank first of all Michel Legrand for that beautiful melody. And to Norman Jewison for the wonderful piece of film that we wrote it. And to, well, to you all. Thank you very much.MARILYN BERGMAN:Thank you.

I'm very privileged to be here this evening representing the team that made Oliver! I'm deeply grateful to you all. And I particularly and very sincerely want to thank our very great director Sir Carol Reed; Lionel Bart, without whom we'd have had no film at all; and all my British and American colleagues who made tonight possible. Thank you very much.

To us who have worked with Walt this is a very special Oscar and it's a memorable moment in all of the moments we've all shared with Walt. Thank you.

This award belongs in small part to those of us who produced this picture. It belonged rather in honor of the life of the man for whom the picture was produced about. Tonight you have given honor to Robert Kennedy.

#VALUE!

#VALUE!

I've been told by people who have been through this experience that the smiles of joy that appear occasionally up here don't come from joy at all but sheer relief. And it's absolutely true and I can't tell you how relieved I am.

I didn't trust myself in case I won so I wrote a couple of things here. I want to thank the Academy of Arts, Sciences and Money for this wonderful award. Well, I'll just say what's in my heart: Ba-bump, ba-bump, ba-bump, ba-bump. But seriously, I'd like to thank Sidney Glazier, the producer of The Producers, for producing The Producers. Joseph E. Levine and his wife Rosalie for distributing the film. I'd also like to thank Zero Mostel. I'd also like to thank Gene Wilder. I'd also like to thank Gene Wilder. I'd also like to thank Gene Wilder. Thank you very much.

Martha, I know that you probably don't realize you're the first woman to ever receive the Jean Hersholt Award.MARTHA RAYE:Yes, sir, I do realize it. I do realize it. [To Bob Hope:] I'm so nervous...BOB HOPE:I know, but you're on.MARTHA RAYE:[To Bob Hope:] Oh, I'm sorry...Academy, ladies and gentlemen, my dear, beautiful legend Bob Hope. This is the most beautiful, honorable, wonderful, exciting day of my life – stateside. And on behalf of all of our troops, myself, I promise you I shall try for the rest of my life to really deserve and be worthy of this magnificent honor bestowed upon me. God bless you and thank you.

[The Oscar statuette is brought on stage by a chimp wearing a tuxedo.]  How can I follow an act like that?May I thank the Board of Governors for this wonderful honor. And may I thank Mr. Zanuck, Mr. Jacobs, and Ben Nye and Dan Striepeke who share this award with me I say. But most of all, all those wonderful makeup men and hairstylists that worked so hard to make this picture a success. From all of us to all of you, God bless you and thank you so much.

[Mark Lester brings the Oscar statuette on stage and hands it to Onna White.]  You all recognize the young man who plays Oliver in our film, Mark Lester. Thank you.There's a first time for everything and this is my first time tonight. On Broadway I've had seven nominations and never won, and what a marvelous way to win one with this special. I want to thank everyone in the Academy and everyone concerned with Oliver! I'd like to mention each one but I'm afraid I'll forget somebody so I'll just thank them all collectively. However, we all want to make special mention of the gentleman who collected and guided us through the whole thing: Mike Frankovich. I would like also to thank my assistant Tom Panko, who did a great deal and helped me a lot. Thank you very much. And thank the Academy again.

From all of us, thank you very much.

Wow! If I'd have known that I would have put that patch on thirty-five years earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm no stranger to this podium. I've come up here and picked up these beautiful golden men before, but always for friends. One night I picked up two: one for Admiral John Ford, one for our beloved Gary Cooper. I was very clever and witty that night, the envy of even Bob Hope, but tonight I don't feel very clever or very witty. I feel very grateful, very humble, and all thanks to many, many people. I want to thank the members of the Academy. To all you people who are watching on television, thank you for taking such a warm interest in our glorious industry. Good night.

Thank you, I'm really quite speechless. There are so many people to thank in the making of a picture. I thank the Academy. I thank the producers, Mr... Winkler – I hope I do better than that tonight. Mr. Winkler, Mr. Chartoff, Mr. Sills. Johnny Green, for his wonderful music. Our very talented director, Mr. Sydney Pollack. But in my heart I have a special thanks for a man whose friendship goes back many years with me, a man who always believed in me when things were not going well or going right. The man who gave me this part, my friend for many years, Mr. Martin Baum. Thank you, Marty. Thank all of you.

Well, I'm standing here and I'm thinking that with a marvelous husband like Robert Stephens and a distinguished director like Robert Fryer and the courage of a man like Richard Zanuck; well, put those all together and you just can't miss. And they didn't. And we in America present this award to you, Maggie, with as much thanks as it is a tribute to your magnificent performance. And thank you, everyone, from Maggie Smith.

Thank you. It's a pleasure to accept this award for her. She couldn't be here because she's in London filming. But I know she would want to thank all her co-stars, Walter Matthau and Ingrid Bergman, her director Gene Saks, and Mike Frankovich. And I think it's wonderful for her. Thank you.

For the group I would like to say thanks first to the Academy, to our great producer Mr. Ernest Lehman, our director Gene Kelly, and the man that made it all possible, Mr. Richard Zanuck.JACK MARTIN SMITH:Members of the Academy, we want to salute the hundreds of people who had much to do with making the sets on Hello, Dolly! come true. Thank you so much.

I'd like to thank Katharine; she wanted me to have it. And all of you, too.

Miss Furse is in England working on the film production of Scrooge and I've been asked to accept this award for Maggie and to extend her sincere thanks to all. Thank you.

John wishes he could have been here tonight. He's right in the middle of shooting his next motion picture, Bloody Sunday. And I think he's on the phone in the back.For him I'd like to say this: He'd like to thank James Leo Herlihy for his novel, and all his American friends who made him feel so at home and worked so hard for something he cared so very much for. Thank you.

Thank you. Because of this film I think I met the most wonderful man on earth – music, love, and everything he has. [To Mrs. Rubinstein:] Thank you, madame, for him.MRS. ARTHUR RUBINSTEIN:Thank you. Well, I must say that I am terribly moved. I'm happy that we convinced my husband to do that picture because he really wasn't, he was shy about it. He didn't want to do it. I'm very moved because people selected, and the Academy selected it. And that everybody voted, I mean the friends voted, those who liked it. And then I'm also very moved by being in this hall where my husband usually plays. And that he should receive this award, I mean here the producer, it's very moving too. And I'm sorry he's not here.

I think we should tell you that this film is about freedom, and perhaps we should share this with the motion picture industry of Czechoslovakia which filmed much of what is in our film and made it available to us.DENIS SANDERS:I think we're feeling very, very successful tonight and I think we should, I'm sure we share that sense of well-being with our brilliant editor Marvin Walowitz and our remarkable composer Chuck  Bernstein.ROBERT M. FRESCO:Thank you.

Well I don't know how to, what to say. Just thank you. And I would like to thank Costa-Gavras who gave me the chance to do it.

Our thanks to all technician, all artist, all friends who make this Oscar possible. Thank you.JACQUES PERRIN:We want thanks also especially our partners Mr. Schlumberger, Mr. Lagda* and Mr. d'Argila, and also the award because the movie is censored in very many country but with this award you help us. Thank you.

I'm deeply happy, I just can tell you that. It was a knock-out picture to work on. And I'm very thrilled. It's a great night. Thank you!

Lennie Hayton couldn't make it tonight but I'm sure he's just as gassed as I am.  I do want to take this moment to thank Dick Zanuck, not only for this but for everything he's done for me; and for Ernie Lehman for being so goddamn beautifully difficult.  And for the sound and the wonderful orchestra at Fox – I don't know what the hell I'm saying, but thank you very much.

This is just marvelous. I'm deeply honored. Thank you so much.BURT BACHARACH:I feel the same way and it's so special. Two of them. I mean, just, it's too fantastic. Very special to me, tomorrow morning they'll be on the breakfast table of our daughter. She's only, not even four years old, but I swear she'll look at these two and she'll  know how very special they are. You made me very, very happy. I thank you. All my heart.

I'd like to thank you all very much on behalf of everyone connected with the making of the film, with a particular thank you to David Picker and United Artists who made it all possible. Thank you.

I want to thank all the wonderful talent out at Disney Studios who helped make this possible. And I want to thank all of the bird lovers and bird watchers in the Academy. I also want to extend my condolences to the unfortunate seagulls in Santa Barbara. Thank you.

When I decided to submit Magic Machines to the Academy, I was warned by my friends who are very kind that it touched on some things that were controversial and that it was really something from another generation. But the fact that it's touched you and that you've chosen to honor it in this way means that there can't be such a big gap between us after all. I thank you.

I wish to thank the members of the Academy, Mr. Ernest Lehman, Mr. Gene Kelly. And especially the members of the 20th Century-Fox sound department who worked with me on Hello, Dolly!, namely Mr. James Corcoran, Douglas Williams, Vinton Vernon, Ted Soderberg, Edward Thirlwell and Jack Solomon. I'm very grateful.JACK SOLOMON:Thank everybody.

Thank you, Academy members, Mr. Frankovich, John Sturges and all the men that helped me on this picture. Thank you.

It's very exciting. I want to thank all the beautiful people who helped to make Midnight Cowboy. Most of all I want to thank all the beautiful people who are going to see it. And may their number increase.

Thank you from Bill Goldman.

I came out a little too soon. I was listening though just now and for a minute I thought I was dead. But this is the closest I've been to an Academy [Award] since I carried Zanuck's coat for Gentlemen's Agreement years ago. But I'm very, very grateful. At my time of life one is grateful not only for this reward of the Oscar but also for a broken umbrella. I'll take anything that's going on. I want to thank the Hersholt family, the Academy, and you, sir [presenter Bob Hope]. And I've waited a long time but it shows that God's delay does not mean God's denial. Thank you so much.

I think you're applauding my stamina. [Banters with presenter Frank Sinatra.]I'm very grateful to the Academy's Board of Directors for this happy tribute and to Frank for coming here especially to give it to me. And well, to all the fellows who worked so hard in finding those and assembling those film clips.You know, I may never look at this without remembering the quiet patience of the directors who were so kind to me, who were kind enough to put up with me more than once, some of them even three or four times. There was Howard Hawks, Hitchcock, the late Leo McCarey, George Stevens, George Cukor and Stanley Donen. And all the writers. There was Philip Barry, Dore Schary, Bob Sherwood, Ben Hecht, dear Clifford Odets, Sidney Sheldon, and more recently Stanley Shapiro and Peter Stone. Well, I trust they, and all the other directors, writers and producers and leading women, have all forgiven me what I didn't know.I realize it's conventional and usual to praise one's fellow workers on these occasions, but why not?! Ours is a collaborative medium, we all need each other. That's how we exist. And what better opportunity is there to publicly express one's appreciation and admiration and affection for all those who contribute so much to each of our welfare. You know, I've never been a joiner or a member of any particular social set, but I've been privileged to be a part of Hollywood's most glorious era. And yet tonight, thinking of all the empty screens that are waiting to be filled with marvelous images and idealogies, points of view, whatever, and considering all the students who are studying film techniques in the universities throughout the world and the astonishing young talents that are coming up in our midst, I think there's an even more glorious era right around the corner.So before I leave you, I want to thank you very much for signifying your approval with this. I shall cherish it until I die, because probably no greater honor can come to any man than the respect of his colleagues. Thank you. So long.

In voting this award I think that the Academy has distinguished itself. I think it has done itself a great deal of good and shown what a good organization it is by recognizing and honoring so generously a fine performance by a great actor.

Well, I really, honestly was not expecting to be standing here with Oscar. I really was not. I was thrilled to be in the building, but I'm quite stunned and I'm completely and utterly unprepared. I was speechless for a year in Ireland, and I am utterly speechless at this moment. But I do want to say that I think it's a wonderful choice – for me, I mean. I really am terribly – everything sounds like a cliché, but I'm really, enormously thrilled. I do think competition is rather good, and I've been competing all my life. And I'm very thrilled that I've won this and I shall always remember this moment. Thank you very much indeed.

I know if Glenda Jackson were here tonight she'd be terribly, terribly thrilled. She's 100 percent a professional and this is a great night for professionals. I know she'd like to thank you most sincerely for this great honor. Thank you.

Well, on behalf of dear Helen, who is First Lady of the theater and certainly first tonight in most of our hearts, I know that she would want me to thank George Seaton who directed her in the film, and her beloved friend and that great and wonderful producer, Mr. Ross Hunter, who produced the film. Thank you very much.

We thank you.

It is no surprise to me at all that Freddie Young has won this Oscar. He has won three before and this will be his fourth. And I think he is quite an extraordinary man and I hope he lives long enough to have another five at least. Thank you.

I have to thank to the people of Columbia for give me the opportunity of this great honor and great joy. Thank you.

I'm sure if Franklin Schaffner were here tonight he would say that it's an honor to accept this award. I know he would thank you for it. But since he isn't… [Ryan O'Neal delivers the Oscar to the podium.] Thank you, Ryan. But since he isn't here, let me say that you couldn't have given it to a better fella. He deserves it. I know, I was there. Thank you.

On behalf of Michael Wadleigh and all of the many, many people who contributed their energies and talents to the making of this film, thank you for the great honor.

Thank you.

I do really thank you very, very much for this little beauty. And I want to thank the other nominees for their great editing in their pictures. Thank you.

Elio Petri can't be with us tonight; he's preparing a new film. But I'm sure he would want me to say how grateful and thrilled he is to receive this. Thank you.

I am very, very happy and I'm sorry because I am not speak English. Je suis très, très heureux et veux vous remercier de tout mon coeur pour la grande honneur que vous me faites. Merci beaucoup. Thank you very much.

This is fantastic. I just wanted an excuse to get close to it. And I wish that the Beatles were all here together tonight to receive this, but I have to get back to conduct the orchestra. On their behalf, thank you very much.

Thank you. And I was not being prepared for this...I would just like to thank not only Robb Royer but of course Fred Karlin for the wonderful music. And most of all the Academy members for making this song a winner. Thank you.ROBB ROYER:Like James I'm a stranger to all this but I'd like to thank James Griffin and Fred Karlin and everyone involved. Thank you.FRED KARLIN:I've really enjoyed very much working with the director Cy Howard, who directed Lovers and Other Strangers. I felt that the warmth and humanity that he captured onscreen was a tremendous inspiration to me and I want to thank him very much. I also would like to thank two other very special friends, Karen and Richard Carpenter, for their very moving interpretation of For All We Know. Thanks to everybody at ABC and thank you all.

Thank you. I accept this award cheerfully, under no duress, with deep obligations and thanks to many, particularly to the Zanucks, father and son, who gave the Patton project their confidence and support during the twenty years which have elapsed since I first proposed it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

Oh my God. Lee, we did it. Lee Mishkin, our director, is up there and Warren Schmidt, our writer. The film couldn't have been done without my fantastic father, Steve Bosustow, our genius at the studio. And Mr. Orson Welles, who did the great narration. My brother Tee Bosustow, who did the editing. And Ken Heller, who did the music. Thank you very much.

Sally Kellerman to boot. Whoo! I think our cast was marvelous, especially Johnny Crawford and Kristin Nelson who I can see right now. It's really a Johnny Crawford picture. He really brought the character to life. And for the filmmakers, we're all very grateful – Jim Rokos, Nick Castle and John Carpenter. Right now I don't feel too bad about getting a B for this picture, but no hard feelings, Dr. Kantor.DR. BERNARD KANTOR:Alright. I'd like to give some credit to John Longenecker who functioned as producer, post-production manager, sound man; kind of did a little bit of everything. John has enormous energy, and a lot of credit to John. Credit to Professor Mel Sloan, whose faculty advisor... [Turns around and sees Sally Kellerman and John Longenecker in conversation.] And he's making out well. And on behalf of the University of Southern California, the Department of Cinema, I'm grateful to the Academy. You started us forty-three years ago, you continue to help us, and thank you.JOHN LONGENECKER:Thanks, Mom and Dad.

"I thank you and I'm very grateful and humbled for this great honor. I want to thank everyone who had anything to do with the picture of Patton, and the management at Fox Studios for their confidence and faith in me. I wish to thank George C. Scott for a fine performance as General Patton. Our wonderful producer, Frank McCarthy. A very talented director, Franklin Schaffner. Our two sound directors, James Corcoran and John Bonner. And also my very talented associates on the picture, Murray Spivack and Ted Soderberg. And our inspired sound effects editors: Don Hall, Dick Jensen, Bill Hartman and Don Isaacs. Thank you again.	DON BASSMAN:I would like to take a moment to thank two gentlemen that I took to Europe with me who performed so admirably and really are a part of this. I think they're the best in the business. My boom man Victor Goode, and my recorder Don Parker. A million thanks to Frank McCarthy and also to Franklin Schaffner; they were both just marvelous. Thank you very much."

Members of the Academy, I'll forever be grateful. I'd also like to thank Twentieth Century-Fox and Mr. Elmo Williams for making it possible that I'm here tonight. And to the crew that worked so hard and helped so much: Thanks, fellas. I appreciate it.L. B. ABBOTT:[Music begins.] He found my notes. Thank you.

At long last a pattern has been established in my life. At the end of every twenty-eight years I get one of these. So, I will see you all again in 1999.

I know that Mr. Coppola would join me in thanking you very, very much for this award. I personally would like to thank Frank McCarthy and Frank Schaffner, a magnificent producer and a magnificent director. And I'd like to say one word, if I may, about the picture. I would hope that Patton is not just a war picture; I would hope it's a peace picture. Thank you very much.

Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Greg. This is truly an all-consuming thrill for me tonight. Over the years I've been part of the awards wearing many different hats – performer, emcee, presenter, recipient – but this is the top of the moment of my little walk-on in life, you might say. And I've been doing a little more thinking and contemplating these days than I did twenty-five years ago. That's because I'm what is known in the vernacular as a retired man now. You might have read about that in your neighborhood throw-aways.One of the things I've been thinking about is why you have to get famous to get an award for helping other people. I'm not being facetious about it; I've just been thinking about it. It's true, actually. If your name is John Doe and you work night and day doing things for your helpless neighbors, what you get for your effort is tired. So Mr. and Mrs. Doe and all of you who give of yourselves to those who carry too big a burden to make it on their own, I want you to reach out and take your share of this Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award. Because if I have earned it so, too, have you. In fact, your way of earning it was harder than my way. Show business has made it easier for me to spread a dab of sunshine here and there. I mean, in show business they pay quite well. And being the quiet, conservative man that I am, I have invested a chunk at 3 percent and put the dividends to work in that noblest of all causes: charity toward your fellow man. It's the only investment in the world that pays 100 percent dividend. Anyway, it's put a great big bundle in here [touches his heart] for me, and I'd like to thank my dear brothers and sisters of the Academy for this joyous moment. Thank you.

I'm speechless. And there are only two words that I can say from my beloved sister and myself for this warm tribute from all my friends and all of you of the Academy:  thank you. And all the charming ghosts I feel around me who should share this, it was our privilege for a little while to serve that beautiful thing, the film. And we never doubted for a moment that it was the most powerful thing, the mind and heartbeat of our technical century. I hope we served it well and I do thank you with all my heart for all of us that this represents. Good night.

Ladies and gentlemen, with this great honor may I say that it's a lot more fun to look forward. Looking backward over some thirty years in the movies is something that I like to do as seldom as possible, but I can't forget that I didn't spend those years alone. Every filmmaker knows how much was done for him and by how many. If I could call just half of all those who deserve it to stand beside me now in front of this camera, just to get 'em in one shot we'd need Cinerama. It'd be quite a crowd scene.As for the public, I hope that they will understand why this is the more precious just because it does not come to me from them, much less from the critics, but from movie people themselves, the ones who love movies most. We need the public; the public doesn't need us. That's the truth of it. We don't really fill a pressing popular need; we try to create it. And if we didn't love movies as much as we do, if we weren't a little crazy on the subject, there wouldn't be any movies at all. I treasure this award as an expression of this happy lunacy, and may I accept it, please, not so much for what I may have done as for what I hope to do. God willing I'm going to make some movies that deserve it. Meanwhile, this encouragement is very welcome. With all my heart, I thank you for it.

This is my first visit to Los Angeles and I have enjoyed every moment of it. I met a lot of warm, generous people and I am very happy that Ingmar Bergman asked me to represent him on this big occasion, though I would have been more happy if he himself could have been here tonight getting personally all the respect and love which has been shown him. He has asked me to say to you that he is sitting on his little island in the Baltic writing on a new script. He isn't here because he feels that a long trip at this moment would do great harm to his concentration on work and he believes that he shows his respect and gratefulness to the honor bestowed to him by the Board and members of the Academy by staying home finishing his script. And he also feels that this fantastic award will inspire him in his fulfillment of his work. Ingmar Bergman says, I am deeply touched and very, very grateful.

Thank you.  [Looking at his name in the winner envelope:] That's what it says.Thank you very much.  I just want to start at the beginning just for a second and say, sitting out there next to Barbara Harris reminds me of my first acting scene ever.  It was in New York, and the gentlemen sitting in front of us when we were doing that scene was my acting teacher, and I just have to mention his name: George Morrison.  I want to thank him.  Also, Mr. Billy Friedkin, who has already received his prize tonight, but I have to thank him because he really brought me through this when I wanted to quit.  And Eddie Egan, who you all know.  Mr. Phil D'Antoni.  Roy Scheider, Roy.  And last, a young lady who I met in New York many years ago, Miss Felippa* Maltese, and she brought me uptown.  Thank you.

Boy, ain't that purty.  Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.  I'm very grateful to the Academy.  I had a speech all rigged up for this but the more I worked on it the phonier it got, so, I'd like to mention some people that has made this all possible:  Mr. Peter Bogdanovich, the director of The Last Picture Show; his lovely wife Polly; Mr. John Ford, who had a lot to do with my doing the show; the entire cast and crew; and all of the folks down in Anarene, Texas –  I think they deserve a big mention; last but certainly not least, Columbia Pictures.  Now, if you got a crew like that behind you, you can't be all bad.  And now what I'm about to say probably will stir up a lot of conversation around over the country.  There's something I'd like to leave in everyone's mind throughout the world: This couldn't have happened to a nicer feller.  Thank you.

Thank you.  Thank you very much, members of the Academy.  And thank all of you who applauded.  There's a great deal to say and I'm not going to say it tonight.  I would just like to really thank you very much.

Oh, thank you.  I'm having an amazing life and it isn't over yet.  Remember when Ben Johnson said in The Last Picture Show, I fought all my life against... whatever he said.  And I feel I've fought all my life against clichés, and look at me, I'm a hopeless cliché.I can't thank anybody.  I feel that we all have, are part of each other. That we've all contributed.  And we work together and we're all the same people. And I love you all for all the experiences I've had.  Except that I want to say to Cornelia Williams Hurlbut, my first piano teacher, and Rose Lorenz, my dancing teacher in Des Moines, and my father Buck Leachman who paid the bills – wait – and finally my mother, whose imagination and funny sense of humor and almost Walter Mitty life herself led to all of this.  I'm deeply honored. Thank you.

Those five gentlemen are so enormously talented it's a shame that they cannot be here to pick up this award.  For my colleagues, for my friends, this is terrific.  Thank you.

I wish Ossie was here tonight; he's working on a picture with Robert Bolt in England.  All I can say is that it was seven months together, and I must say that it is true he shot the whole picture through a lady's silk stocking.  God bless you, Ossie.  You really are a very talented man, and I'm sure he would like to thank the Academy for this great honor.  Thank you very much.

Ladies and gentlemen – I can hardly lift it it's so heavy.  Thank you so very, very much.  It's a great honor on behalf of Antonio Castillo and myself and our huge wardrobe department that we had on the film.  And I suppose all one can say is that if it wasn't for the Russian Revolution I wouldn't be here.

This is a tremendous honor and I'm very proud to accept it.  I'm proud, too, of the people that helped me to make The French Connection:  the people of Twentieth Century-Fox; the entire cast and crew, especially Roy Scheider and Gene Hackman for their fine performances; Jerry Greenberg, for his cutting; Owen Roizman, for his photography.  But most of all, I would like to thank the man who made it all possible, not only made it possible for the picture to be made but for me to direct it.  I owe it all to him.  His name is Phil D'Antoni.  Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.

Thank you very much.  It may not have seemed like it but this film had a lot of people involved in it, and I'd like to thank David Wolper, and Mel Stuart, and David Seltzer and Lalo Schifrin for making it complete.  And I'd like to thank all of you for this.  Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Academy, we were rather shell shocked last time, and it's my turn to speak this time and I'm still shell shocked. Thank you very much.

In the interest of brevity, thank you to the Academy, Phil D'Antoni, Bill Friedkin and the New York City subway system.

Several years ago I stood here in front of you to accept the award for The Sky Above--the Mud Below.  It was that very Oscar which marked the beginning of the global acceptance of that film which was produced against the advice of many.  The Garden of Finzi Continis was made by Vittorio De Sica, Gianni Hecht Lucari and myself against similar advice.  We were warned that a film without any sex and without any violence, dealing in a subtle manner with a tragic chapter of mankind is a doomed venture.  Tonight, again, the Academy has given hope and inspiration to independent film producers everywhere to go ahead with their projects as long as they sincerely believe in them.  On behalf of all connected with The Garden of Finzi Continis, and also on behalf of those independent film producers out there, I humbly thank you.GIANNI HECHT LUCARI:Thank you.