Welcome to The Times’ neighborhood map of Los Angeles County. This regional view is your portal to individual maps and statistics for 158 cities and unincorporated places and 114 neighborhoods within the city of Los Angeles. In addition, there are maps of 42 unincorporated areas that we have collapsed inside of adjacent cities.

The maps cover the 4,000 square miles of Los Angeles County — by far the most populous county in the nation — from the high desert to the coast. In 2009, there were an estimated 9.8 million residents, up from 9.5 million counted in the 2000 U.S. census, the basis for The Times’ demographic analysis for each neighborhood and region.

Click on a region to see the neighborhoods within it. Then click on any one to see a more detailed map with information about schools, income, demographics and news from that area. Or just select a neighborhood from the search box to the left.

Mapping L.A. began in 2009 with publication of The Times’ map of 87 neighborhoods in the city of Los Angeles, redrawn with the help of readers who agreed or disagreed with our initial boundaries.

But readers didn’t just comment on the boundaries; hundreds sent notes — short essays, really — on the places they live. They were informative, humorous, thought-provoking and often eloquent. Now we expand that conversation to the entire county. Please use these pages to tell us more about the places you live.

Welcome to The Times’ database of Los Angeles County crime reports. Crime L.A. delivers the power of neighborhood crime analysis to your computer. Using data from the Los Angeles Police Department and Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, Crime L.A. creates maps and reports for the hundreds of cities and neighborhoods covered by these agencies.

With daily updates, readers can keep current on local crime and compare crime levels across more than 200 neighborhoods and localities. When violent or property crimes rise sharply in LAPD patrolled neighborhoods, the system delivers a crime alert. Long-term statistics, like the rankings to the left, are available for areas covered by LAPD and the sheriff.

If your neighborhood or city is not yet included, stay tuned. The Times has contacted all law enforcement agencies in the county and will continue to expand Crime L.A. as more agencies begin to provide data.

This is part of the Mapping L.A. project, which launched in 2009 with The Times’ map of 87 neighborhoods in the city of Los Angeles, redrawn with the help of readers who redrew with our initial boundaries. More information can be found in our FAQ.

California's War Dead is the Los Angeles Times' collection of stories about the 723 California servicemembers and 485 others based in California who died during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Since at least 1919, the Boy Scouts of America has maintained “ineligible volunteer” files intended to keep sexual abusers, among others, out of its ranks. The records have been closely held by the Scouts, which contends that confidentiality is essential to protect victims, witnesses and anyone falsely accused.

The Times reviewed about 1,600 of the files dating from 1970 to 1991. In hundreds of cases, sexual abuse was not reported to law enforcement, and Scout officials at times actively hid it from parents and the public. In at least 50 cases, the Boy Scouts expelled men for alleged sexual abuse, only to discover later that they had reentered the Scouts and were again accused of molesting.

Here are files from some of those cases. The Times has redacted victims’ names and other identifying information. Some files include explicit accounts of sexual abuse.

The document below is an excerpt from a printed version of the scripted questions LAFD dispatchers must work their way through on a computer as part of every 911 call. It describes how dispatchers must respond to reports of cardiac arrest, where the heart suddenly stops beating.

Los Angeles Fire Department dispatchers waste valuable seconds getting 911 callers to start CPR on cardiac arrest victims, often beginning the life-saving procedure after the point at which brain death begins, according to this sharply worded internal study obtained by The Times.

The full report is below with excerpts from 911 calls highlighted as examples by the department.

In response to questions from the Times about files pertaining to alleged child abuse in the Boy Scouts between 1970 and 1991, the Boy Scouts of America issued the following statement and timeline:

More than 60 people lost their lives amid the looting and fires that ravaged the city over five days starting April 29, 1992. Ten were shot to death by law enforcement officials. An additional 44 people died in other homicides or incidents tied to the rioting. By year’s end, Los Angeles had 1,096 homicides, a record. 1992 remains L.A.'s deadliest year.

An in-depth look at the past and present of the Lakers, the 16-time NBA champions. Here you will find a bio for every player who ever wore a Lakers uniform, in L.A. and Minneapolis. Every statistic, every season, every title, every Hall of Famer.
Want to know who has worn No. 24 or any other number in Lakers history? Click on the uniform number on the player bio pages and find out. Want to know every Lakers player that went to UCLA? Click on the school name to find out. Every center? Can’t remember the entire roster of the Showtime-era Lakers? All the information you’ve ever wanted to know about the Lakers is just a click or two away.
So revisit your favorite Lakers team, your favorite Lakers player, and discover just how rich their history is.

The U.S. government's National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) allows the public to file complaints about vehicles and transportation-related equipment. Complaints can be submitted by phone, fax, mail or online and are typically reported by consumers and attorneys. The complaints are monitored by NHTSA's Office of Defects Investigation, which looks for trends and, in some cases, orders investigations. Here are complaints about vehicles filed with NHTSA since Jan. 1, 2010. This list is updated daily, and the data are reprinted "as is" from the filings. Search by manufacturer and model and sort by model year, date filed and date of claimed incident.

After remaining stable for most of human history, the world's population has exploded over the last two centuries. The boom is not over: The biggest generation in history is just entering its childbearing years. The coming wave will reshape the planet, and the impact will be greatest in the poorest, most unstable countries.

The Los Angeles Times has produced an analysis of how effective Los Angeles Unified School District teachers have been at improving their students' performance on standardized tests. The Times has decided to make the ratings available because they bear on the performance of public employees who provide an important service, and in the belief that parents and the public have a right to the information.

The most recent campaign reports show that California and New York continue to fuel President Obama’s fundraising advantage, while Mitt Romney has raised more money in Connecticut, Florida and Texas. The latest numbers do not include Romney’s joint party committee, which will file new contribution data October 15.

Outside groups are having a profound impact on the 2012 presidential race, pouring tens of millions of dollars into campaign ads that have put both President Obama and Republican challenger Mitt Romney on the defensive. The totality of their influence is hard to calculate: while super PACs must report their spending to the Federal Election Commission, tax-exempt advocacy groups only have to report the money they spend on certain kinds of ads. Here’s a look at how much outside groups have reported spending since Romney secured the GOP nomination in April, and a sampling of the ads they have run.

There is no blood test or other biological marker for autism. Doctors rely on their own observations and what parents tell them. Psychiatry's guidebook, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, lays out the criteria. Many autistic traits and behaviors are seen in children without autism or with other conditions. Only in sufficient numbers and specific combinations do they add up to a diagnosis on the autism spectrum.

Stories: Discovering autism

The three most common diagnoses on the spectrum are autistic disorder, Asperger's disorder and — for children who don't qualify for those — pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS). As this interactive checklist illustrates, there are many ways to arrive at each, and how a child is classified can amount to a judgment call. Answer questions below or select a hypothetical case to explore how a diagnosis is reached.

Welcome to The Times' guide to Southern California farmers markets. We need your help to make this the most comprehensive guide available. Take a look. Click around.

Farmers market addresses can be tricky — they can be located in parking lots, run alongside frontage roads, or show up in the middle of a park. And hours and dates can change, too. Please help us improve our Farmers Market guide

On Friday, June 10, 2011, the state of Alaska released nearly 25,000 pages worth of Sarah Palin’s emails from her tenure as governor. The emails begin at the start of Palin’s term in December 2006 and end Sept. 30, 2008, shortly after Arizona Sen. John McCain selected her as his vice presidential running mate, when the requests for the emails were made.

All emails have been scanned and are available below in a searchable archive. The Times is publishing the emails verbatim, as released by Alaska officials. Some include vulgarities or content that some readers may consider objectionable.

The Times requested 2009 total taxable income figures from each of the cities in the county after learning Bell city officials, including city manager Robert Rizzo, were taking home huge salaries.

Because each city operates in its own way and offers its own mix of bonuses, perks and allowances to its top administrator, the total taxable income was considered the best way to compare compensation.

It's important to note that these figures may not necessarily be the complete picture. In some cases, the taxable income figure does not capture the pretax dollars that cities direct toward an employee's retirement package or deferred compensation account.

Responding to the salary scandal in Bell, Los Angeles City Controller Wendy Greuel posted the annual salaries of every L.A. city employee online on August 6, 2010.

Greuel lists almost every approved position in city government — from her own ($196,667) down to a Vocational Worker I in the Department of General Services ($27,582)

"The public’s trust has been broken as a result of the recent scandal in Bell," Greuel said. "This is an important step to provide greater transparency and openness in how taxpayer dollars are spent."

She said Los Angeles is now the largest city to post a comprehensive list of city employee salaries.

The database does not list employees by name, only position, and does not include the Department of Water and Power. The abbreviations appear exactly as provided by the city.

The series of killings began in South Los Angeles in the summer of 1985 and continued with some frequency until 1988, when a female survivor was raped and shot. She lived to describe her attacker as black, in his 20s, 5-foot-8 to 5-foot-10, about 160 pounds, soft-spoken and articulate, with neatly trimmed hair and a pockmarked face.

For more than 13 years, the killer had no known slayings until the body of a teenage girl was discovered in Inglewood in March 2002, a lull in attacks that led to his description as "The Grim Sleeper." Eventually, DNA and ballistics evidence connected the killings of 10 women and one man from 1985 to 2007, police said.

On July 7, 2010, Los Angeles police arrested Lonnie David Franklin Jr., a 57-year old black man, at his home in South Los Angeles, a location they described as being "right in the heart of it all." Authorities said the landmark use of familial DNA led them to Franklin.
Prosecutors said they have charged Franklin with 10 counts of murder, noting that he is eligible for the death penalty. He has not been charged in the 1986 shooting death of Thomas Steele, a 36-year old black man, although authorities believe Steele's killing is connected to the other cases.

Use the interactive map below to learn more about the Grim Sleeper's known victims. The  shows location of Franklin's home and other points of interest in the case. The  mark where victims bodies were found. Readers are invited to share their thoughts and memories.

In December 2010, the LAPD released 180 photos found in Franklin's possession in an effort to identify the women pictured.

Since the early 1980s, at least five serial killers, and possibly more, were active in the South Los Angeles area. Click here to see a map of where authorities found the bodies of 53 victims of serial killers between 1984 and 2007.

In November 2008 — five months after gay couples began marrying in the state — Californians went to the polls and voted 52% to 48% to ban same-sex marriage.
Proposition 8 amended California’s Constitution to define marriage as between a man and a woman and is the state’s costliest social initiative to date, with more than $83 million raised.
The initiative fight got underway after the California Supreme Court ruled unconstitutional a 2000 vote that limited marriage to heterosexual couples. In their May 2008 decision, the justices said gay couples had the same fundamental right to marry.
Supporters of Proposition 8 wanted to end gay marriage in California; opponents wanted to maintain the right of same-sex couples to wed.

A city commission has proposed changes to the lines that define Los Angeles City Council districts. The public will have five weeks to review the maps and comment before the panel’s final vote and a plan goes to the City Council for consideration. The table below shows the demographic breakdown of the proposed draft.

On Feb. 17, 2012, the districts were revised. Demographics for the new lines can be found here.

For more than a decade, the battle over same-sex marriage and other rights for gay couples has been hard fought in U.S. courts and legislatures and at the ballot box. Use this map to view milestones in the fight and how state laws have changed since 2000.

Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca has accepted gifts from executives seeking his agency’s business, individuals who later received special treatment from him and even a pair of convicted criminals, according to a Times review of disclosure records. State law allows local officials to accept presents with some restrictions, and Baca's done so with gusto. Since becoming sheriff in 1998, he's accepted more than $120,000 worth.

During a recent three-year span, he hauled in significantly more freebies than all of California's 57 other sheriffs combined. His gifts include fine wines and liquor, tickets to concerts and sporting events, golf, meals and travel. A searchable database of all the gifts he's reported since taking office is below.

Rates of autism in California school districts vary widely, reflecting how a broader definition and perception of the disorder have spread unevenly.

In California, 1.1% of public elementary school students have been identified as autistic, a Los Angeles Times analysis found. The rate in Orange County (1.6%) is almost triple that of Fresno County, and many rural school districts list no autistic students at all.

The table below reports 2010 autism rates in all public elementary school districts for kindergarten through 5th grade.

The Los Angeles City Clerk has released the names of 231 medical marijuana collectives that have applied to participate in a lottery to select 100 dispensaries to operate in the city.

The clerk’s office is still reviewing the information on the eight-page form and the supporting documents to ensure that the applicants meet the requirements in the city’s ordinance to qualify for the drawing. Among them, dispensaries must have paperwork that proves they were in business on Sept. 14, 2007, and have at least one of the original operators.

Using a little-publicized practice known as uprating, the country’s nuclear power plant fleet has added the equivalent of five reactors since 1996 without the construction of a new plant. An uprate is achieved by boosting the amount of energy an existing plant generates. Regulators say they expect to approve boosts totaling 3 1/2 more reactors over the next four years.

There are three different types of uprates. The most significant method is known as an “extended uprate.” It is also considered the most likely to pose safety concerns. A list of all uprates, past and planned, is below.

The Los Angeles city attorney’s office has warned more than 200 medical marijuana dispensaries to shut down immediately or face legal action. The warnings began with letters sent to 141 dispensaries on March 7 and another 60 on March 23. Dispensaries targeted include those that did not register to participate in a lottery — not yet scheduled — that will select 100 collectives to operate in the city. Operators of 231 dispensaries have applied to be included in the drawing.

The list below includes both dispensaries ordered to close, and those vying to stay open by participating in the lottery.

Authorities made arrests this week in unrelated multiple killings that rocked the area's tight-knit Armenian community.

Nerses Arthur Galstyan, 28, and his brother, Samuel Galstyan, were taken into custody Tuesday evening in the Seattle suburb of Kenmore in connection with the April 3 slayings of Hayk Yegnanyan, 25; Sarkis Karadjian, 26; Harut Baburyan, 28; and Vardan Tofalyan, 31, at a Valley Village restaurant.

Police allege that Nerses Galystan committed the quadruple killing because he was fed up with being disrespected by the victims. Two other men were wounded.

Alberd Tersargyan of Los Angeles, who is believed to be 59, was taken into custody Wednesday in connection with the killings of three members of the same family, law enforcement sources told the Times.

In December 2008, a gunman burst into a Hollywood apartment and shot Khachik Safaryan and his 8-year-old daughter. Safaryan's 12-year-old daughter discovered the bodies later that day. Eighteen months later, Safaryan's widow, Karine Hakobyan, 38, was found slumped in her car with a gunshot wound to the back of the head, blocks away from the first crime scene. The daughter, once again, discovered the body.

Use the interactive map below to learn more about the cases, including the comments left by readers.

Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca has taken aim at the medical marijuana industry, citing a triple murder in West Hollywood as an example of how enterprising criminals have infiltrated some of the dispensaries.

Baca said the dispensaries have strayed from their original mission — to aid the seriously ill — and are now the target of criminals who see an easy way to make money and get drugs.

"The medicinal marijuana program that voters authorized years ago has been hijacked by underground drug-dealing criminals who are resorting to violence in order to control their piece of the action," Baca said.

At least seven homicides in Los Angeles County in recent years have been tied by authorities to the medical marijuana industry, according to data collected for the Homicide Report. This map shows their locations. Click on the names or red circles to learn more about each crime. Read more about marijuana-related issues in The Times complete coverage.

In 1987, while awaiting trial for four murders in Alabama, Daniel Lee Siebert confessed to killing two women in South Los Angeles, offering details authorities said only the killer would know.

While investigators said that Siebert admitted to as many as 13 killings across the United States, he was not a suspect in any of the other deaths initially attributed to a killer dubbed the Southside Slayer.

Authorities said their attention was drawn to Siebert by police in Talladega, Ala., who learned that the suspect in five murders there had formerly resided in Southern California, working as a painter and frequenting the Hollywood area.

Siebert died in prison, at 53, in 2008.

Since the early 1980s, at least five serial killers, and possibly more, were active in the South Los Angeles area. These killers targeted mostly young African American women, dumping their bodies in alleys, vacant buildings or parks.

Los Angeles city leaders have spent months discussing the best strategy for assessing the condition of thousands of miles of broken and buckled sidewalks. With the total cost of repairs expected to reach $1.5 billion, officials warn an exhaustive survey of the damage could take three years to complete and cost more than $10 million.
Readers can submit reports to the Times' own database of damaged sidewalks by snapping a picture and uploading it to our online form, sending an email to latimessidewalks@gmail.com with the photo as an attachment, or tweeting a photo with the address using the hashtag #lasidewalks.
If you send an email, please let us know the approximate address of the damage in the subject line, and describe the problem in the body of the message.

